# EinsteinDB

EinsteinDB is the world's first relativistic linearizable, causal consistet, supercolumnar RDMA. There are two layers to EinsteinDB, MilevaDB our golang OLAP framework; in-memory, append-log, tango trees. Stochastic Column-wide Indices which are propagated in a Markovian Arrival Departure process with constant lambda parsing roughly 5-10 million rows per second, with row size of about 200-300 bytes or less). Arranged so as to treat every Event as a row-based addition with timestamp in this temporal lattice: ekvproto. EinsteinDB supports zero-copy remote data atomicity with strong consistency via petri linked-lists with cache-oblivious overhead enabling the action to get treated as. VACUUM_TIMETRAVEL_TXN Forward and Backward in time. EinsteinDB's tuples (Quite similar to PostgreSQL's tuple) are data-race free types; comprised of a private copy M of the abstract shared Causal Memory M_n named causets with vector clock t which is considered a timestamp. 

EinsteinDB is an eventful store with query-abstraction so as to not abide to strict Mvcc principles. EinsteinDB prefers the branching of split-phase disk/network opetations interpreted as stateful transitions using 'kleen' (multiplex of fsm over small number of threads). Events can be totally ordered according to: irreflexive assertions, transitive contractions, and temporal mapping relations. The states of the "causets" themselves is idempotent; allowing read and write operations to continue even during network partitions targeting key/value access with a focus on HA. Tile-based architectures, Self-Driving Databases, and Relaxed Operator Fusion are some of the tools used to construct the implemented WAL for failover recovery and Append-only Multiversion Optimistic CC. Two events may occur in opposite orders from the perspective of two "Observers". Intuitively, these phenomena occur because the speed of light in a vacuum appears the same to all observers irrespective of their relative motion or the motion of the light source.

A causet, to be more precise, is a discrete set of elements - the basic spacetime building blocks or "elementary events". But whereas in the continuum, spacetime is described, mathematically speaking, by an elaborate web of relationships among the point-events carrying information about contiguity, about smoothness, and about distances and times, for the elements of a causet the only relational information we have is what mathematicians call a "partial (or quasi-) order" - for some pairs x, y of elements (not for all!) we have the information that x comes before y, or, in other cases, that x comes after y. Physically, you should think of this ordering as a microscopic counterpart of the macroscopic relation of before and after in time: For some events, we know that they take place after certain other events. (The word "causal" comes in because we say that an event is later than another event if the latter could exert a causal influence on the former.)

to-do:

Background Vacuuming(VACUUM)
RCU-based memory reclamation.
